4/4.1-set-up-substrate-ui.md, before:

Set Up Substrate UI
===

Similar to the `substrate-node-new` command you used way back at the beginning of this tutorial, when you install substrate, we also provide you with a `substrate-ui-new` command which will automatically clone the [`substrate-ui` repo](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-ui/tree/substrate-node-template) on your computer.

## Install the Substrate UI

For the best experience working with the Substrate UI repo, you should install `yarn` on your computer following the instructions here:

[Install Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/)

Run the following command in your working folder:

```
substrate-ui-new substratekitties
```

You should see that a new folder is created where the `substrate-ui` repo is cloned. In that folder, install the required packages using:

```
yarn install
```

And once the packages are done you can run the UI using:

```
yarn run dev
```

Make sure your node is up and running and open `localhost:8000` in your Chrome.

## Bare Bones Substrate UI

The `substrate-ui` template comes with a number of prebuilt features that you might expect for the average Blockchain UI.

- A wallet to manage and create keys + accounts
- An address book to get details about accounts
- A transfer function to send funds between accounts
- A runtime upgrade UX to make easy updates to your runtime

## Runtime Upgrade

Up until now, we have had you "purge" your chain and generate new binaries every time you wanted to make changes to your runtime. However, Substrate is unique in that it allows for "forkless upgrades" where you are able to upgrade your runtime logic without having to cause problems to your network.

You might try this if you make logical changes to some of your functions as suggested in the challenges at the end of chapter 3. Take a look [here](https://substrate.readme.io/docs/creating-a-custom-substrate-chain#section-step-5-upgrade-our-chain) for some more details.

## React Components

If you peer into the Substrate UI code, you will see that it is made up of React Components each which serve their own purpose. As mentioned, the Substrate UI comes with a set of prebuilt features, and you can find the components which power those features in the `src` folder.

All of these components are put together in the `src/app.jsx` file which powers the main view that you see.

Commit message:

noting that you must use chrome

4/4.1-set-up-substrate-ui.md, after:

Set Up Substrate UI
===

Similar to the `substrate-node-new` command you used way back at the beginning of this tutorial, when you install substrate, we also provide you with a `substrate-ui-new` command which will automatically clone the [`substrate-ui` repo](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-ui/tree/substrate-node-template) on your computer.

## Install the Substrate UI

For the best experience working with the Substrate UI repo, you should install `yarn` on your computer following the instructions here:

[Install Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/)

Run the following command in your working folder:

```
substrate-ui-new substratekitties
```

You should see that a new folder is created where the `substrate-ui` repo is cloned. In that folder, install the required packages using:

```
yarn install
```

And once the packages are done you can run the UI using:

```
yarn run dev
```

Make sure your node is up and running and open `localhost:8000` in your Chrome.

----
_Note_:

The UI uses websockets to connect to the local node instance through an unecrypted connection. Most Browsers disallow this kind of connection for security and privacy reasons, only Chrome allows this connection _if it is connecting to localhost_. That is why we are using Chrome in this workshop. If you want to connect to the browser to a different computer in the network, it must be served through a secured connection.

----

## Bare Bones Substrate UI

The `substrate-ui` template comes with a number of prebuilt features that you might expect for the average Blockchain UI.

- A wallet to manage and create keys + accounts
- An address book to get details about accounts
- A transfer function to send funds between accounts
- A runtime upgrade UX to make easy updates to your runtime

## Runtime Upgrade

Up until now, we have had you "purge" your chain and generate new binaries every time you wanted to make changes to your runtime. However, Substrate is unique in that it allows for "forkless upgrades" where you are able to upgrade your runtime logic without having to cause problems to your network.

You might try this if you make logical changes to some of your functions as suggested in the challenges at the end of chapter 3. Take a look [here](https://substrate.readme.io/docs/creating-a-custom-substrate-chain#section-step-5-upgrade-our-chain) for some more details.

## React Components

If you peer into the Substrate UI code, you will see that it is made up of React Components each which serve their own purpose. As mentioned, the Substrate UI comes with a set of prebuilt features, and you can find the components which power those features in the `src` folder.

All of these components are put together in the `src/app.jsx` file which powers the main view that you see.
