Introduction
===

In this section, we will show you the basics of creating a custom runtime:

 - How to use runtime storage
 - How to expose runtime functions
 - How to use the Polkadot UI to interact with your runtime

## What is a Runtime?

In short, the *runtime* is block execution logic of a blockchain, sometimes referred to as the **state transition function**. In Substrate, this is stored on-chain in an implementation-neutral, machine-executable format as a WebAssembly binary. Other systems tend to express it only in human-readable format (e.g. Ethereum) or not at all (e.g. Bitcoin).

## What is a Module?

Your blockchain's runtime is composed of multiple features and functionalities which work together to power your blockchain. Things like:

 - Account Management
 - Token Balances
 - Governance
 - Runtime Upgrades
 - and more...

are all modules that are provided for you to easily include into your runtime. These default set of modules provided by Substrate are known as the Substrate Runtime Module Library (**SRML**).

With the Substrate framework, you are able to easily create and include new modules to your runtime. that is what we will be doing in this tutorial!

## Rust

At the moment, Substrate and Runtime development uses the [Rust programming language](https://www.parity.io/why-rust/).

This tutorial is **not** a course in learning Rust, but we should go over some of the basic differences you may encounter when following this guide compared to programming in other languages.

[TODO: Update this whole section to be better]

### Ownership and Borrowing

From the [Rust docs](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ownership.html):

> Ownership is Rust’s most unique feature, and it enables Rust to make memory safety guarantees without needing a garbage collector.
>
> - Each value in Rust has a variable that’s called its owner.
> - There can only be one owner at a time.
> - When the owner goes out of scope, the value will be dropped.

### Traits

From the [Rust docs](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/traits.html):

> Traits abstract over behavior that types can have in common.

If you are familiar with interfaces, Traits are Rust's sole notion of an interface. [[Source]](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2015/05/11/traits.html)

### Macros

From the [Rust docs](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/macros.html):

> While functions and types abstract over code, macros abstract at a syntactic level.

More simply, macros are code that write code, usually to simplify or make code more readable.

Substrate uses a lot of macros throughout the Runtime development process, and they are quite specific in the syntax they support and quite poor in the errors they return.

---
**Learn More**

 how does Result/? work maybe?

 Introduce Traits -> Connection to interfaces?

[TODO: make this a page]

---
